# Advent Of Code Elixir

Repo for doin' the puzzles with Elixir. Because Elixir is fun!

## Puzzle Code Generation
You can generate scaffolding for a day's solution by running `mix day $puzzle_number $year` (e.g. `mix day 12 2020`).

This will create a module for that day's puzzle and an accompanying test module. You'd run those like `mix test test/aoc_2021/day01_test.exs`. The basic idea is that you implement each part in the appropriately named `part_1` and `part_2` functions in that day's module. These are called with the puzzle's input in the autogenerated tests.

Provide a valid session token in the root of the repo, in the `.session_token` file, to automatically download the puzzle input file!

## Site Utils
You can fetch the puzzle description (to the puzzle's implementation directory) using `mix day.desc $day $year`. This no longer happens by default when scaffolding a solution, because Eric Wastl requests that we don't include puzzle description texts in our repos. (I will go and clean up the existing ones someday, sorry fellow Eric).

You can also submit a solution using `mix day.submit $day $year $part $answer`. If you steal any part of my code, please write your own User-Agent header string instead of stealing mine ;)

## Tests
Run all the tests with `mix test`.

You can add a tag above a long-running test so that it doesn't get run by default like so: `@tag slow: true`

Run all the tests, including ones that take a long time, with `mix test --include slow`. Currently this takes about 5 minutes.

Also included is a `mix` task which provides a convenient shortcut for running the tests for a particular day's puzzle. You can run it like this: `mix test.aoc $day $year` (e.g. `mix test.aoc 10 2021`). You can also run `mix test.aoc.watch` to start `mix test.watch` for the given day and year.

## Benchmarks
Benchmarks using benchee exist in the test dirs for some days. You run those like `mix run test/aoc_2015/day05/day05_benchmarks.exs`. Benchmarking is cool!

## CI
A simple Github action is included, which runs the full test suite on each pushed commit.